RHDH Test Day - FAB Updates (#997)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/configuring-a-floating-action-button/proc-configuring-floating-action-button-as-a-dynamic-plugin.adoc

To configure a floating action button as a dynamic plugin, complete any of the following tasks:

> * Specify the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in your `{my-app-config-file}` file. For example: 

Reviewer: this file should be the dynamic-plugins yaml file

                  label: 'Quay'
                  showLabel: true
                  toolTip: 'Quay'
                  to: 'https://quay.io'
              - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
                importName: NullComponent
                config:
                  icon: github
                  label: 'Git'
                  toolTip: 'Github'
                  to: https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-plugins
----
You can also configure floating action buttons to display as submenu options within the main floating action button by assigning the floating action buttons to the same slot.

* To configure a floating action buttons that contains a submenu, define the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the same `slot` for multiple dynamic plugins as actions. The default slot is `page-end` when not specified. For example:
+
.Example of a floating action button as a submenu
[source,yaml]
----
- package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/red-hat-developer-hub-backstage-plugin-bulk-import

>     disabled: false

Reviewer: check the indentation here

                importName: BulkImportPage # It is necessary to specify an importName because mount point without an associated component is not allowed.
                config:
                  slot: 'page-end'
                  icon: <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" enable-background="new 0 0 24 24" height="24px" viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="24px" fill="#e8eaed"><g><rect fill="none" height="24" width="24"/></g><g><path d="M11,7L9.6,8.4l2.6,2.6H2v2h10.2l-2.6,2.6L11,17l5-5L11,7z M20,19h-8v2h8c1.1,0,2-0.9,2-2V5c0-1.1-0.9-2-2-2h-8v2h8V19z"/></g></svg>
                  label: 'Bulk import'
                  toolTip: 'Register multiple repositories in bulk'
                  to: /bulk-import/repositories
            # end of fab config
            appIcons:
              - name: bulkImportIcon
                importName: BulkImportIcon
            dynamicRoutes:
              - path: /bulk-import/repositories
                importName: BulkImportPage
                menuItem:
                  icon: bulkImportIcon
                  text: Bulk import
----

.Example of a floating action button as a submenu using the default `slot` value
[source,yaml]
----

>   - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/red-hat-developer-hub-backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button

Reviewer: Place this after the bulk-import package

.Example of a bulk-import plugin as a floating action button
[source,yaml]
----
- package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/red-hat-developer-hub-backstage-plugin-bulk-import
  disabled: false
  pluginConfig:  
    dynamicPlugins:
      frontend:
        red-hat-developer-hub.backstage-plugin-bulk-import:
          # Start of the floating action button configuration
          mountPoints:
            - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
              importName: BulkImportPage # <1>
              config:
                slot: 'page-end'

>                 icon: <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" enable-background="new 0 0 24 24" height="24px" viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="24px" fill="#e8eaed"><g><rect fill="none" height="24" width="24"/></g><g><path d="M11,7L9.6,8.4l2.6,2.6H2v2h10.2l-2.6,2.6L11,17l5-5L11,7z M20,19h-8v2h8c1.1,0,2-0.9,2-2V5c0-1.1-0.9-2-2-2h-8v2h8V19z"/></g></svg>

Reviewer 2: This is a very long value string. Is it configurable or is this just an example we pasted from somewhere? I think I see some opportunities to use variables and make it more generic, but if we must keep it this way, can we use a call out to explain what all these parameters and characters are about?

Reviewer: @linfraze The bulk import icon component that we have is a white svg icon, which is not clearly visible when rendered on the FAB component, which is why I have used this SVG component which shows a black icon

Author: I've added a callout!

                label: 'Bulk import'
                toolTip: 'Register multiple repositories in bulk'
                to: /bulk-import/repositories
          # End of the floating action button configuration
          appIcons:
            - name: bulkImportIcon
              importName: BulkImportIcon
          dynamicRoutes:
            - path: /bulk-import/repositories
              importName: BulkImportPage
              menuItem:
                icon: bulkImportIcon
                text: Bulk import
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.

> * To configure a dynamic plugin as a floating action button that opens an external link, specify the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the `backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button` plugin. For example:

Reviewer 2: But what file is this plugin configuration in? I still think we should tell the user that information.

Reviewer: The file should be dynamic-plugins config map

+
.Example of a floating action button that opens GitHub
[source,yaml]
----
- package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/red-hat-developer-hub-backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button
  disabled: false
  pluginConfig:
    dynamicPlugins:
      frontend:
        red-hat-developer-hub.backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button:
          mountPoints:
              - mountPoint: application/listener
                importName: DynamicGlobalFloatingActionButton
              - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
                importName: NullComponent # <1>
                config:

>                   icon: '<svg viewBox="0 0 250 300" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid"><path d="M200.134 0l55.555 117.514-55.555 117.518h-47.295l55.555-117.518L152.84 0h47.295zM110.08 99.836l20.056-38.092-2.29-8.868L102.847 0H55.552l48.647 102.898 5.881-3.062zm17.766 74.433l-17.333-39.034-6.314-3.101-48.647 102.898h47.295l25-52.88v-7.883z" fill="#40B4E5"/><path d="M152.842 235.032L97.287 117.514 152.842 0h47.295l-55.555 117.514 55.555 117.518h-47.295zm-97.287 0L0 117.514 55.555 0h47.296L47.295 117.514l55.556 117.518H55.555z" fill="#003764"/></svg>'

Reviewer 2: Same comment as earlier about this icon value. What does all of this mean? Is it necessary to use this in the sample config? If we are going to use this, can we use a callout to explain what this all means or what it does?

Author: Absolutely, Lindsey! I'll get more clarification from Debsmita!
@debsmita1 , what are we doing with this svg icon? I'll add a callout to it. :)

Reviewer: This the svg for the Quay icon

                  label: 'Quay'
                  showLabel: true
                  toolTip: 'Quay'
                  to: 'https://quay.io'
              - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
                importName: NullComponent
                config:
                  icon: github
                  label: 'Git'
                  toolTip: 'Github'
                  to: https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-plugins
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.

> * To configure a floating action buttons that contains a submenu, define the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the same `slot` for multiple dynamic plugins as actions. The default slot is `page-end` when not specified. For example:

Reviewer 2: Oh, I see -- `slot` is a field. It might be a good idea to specify that, especially in other parts of the doc when we use the term "slot" without code formatting

            - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
              importName: BulkImportPage # <1>
              config:
                slot: 'page-end'
                icon: <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" enable-background="new 0 0 24 24" height="24px" viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="24px" fill="#e8eaed"><g><rect fill="none" height="24" width="24"/></g><g><path d="M11,7L9.6,8.4l2.6,2.6H2v2h10.2l-2.6,2.6L11,17l5-5L11,7z M20,19h-8v2h8c1.1,0,2-0.9,2-2V5c0-1.1-0.9-2-2-2h-8v2h8V19z"/></g></svg> # <2>
                label: 'Bulk import'
                toolTip: 'Register multiple repositories in bulk'
                to: /bulk-import/repositories
          # End of the floating action button configuration
          appIcons:
            - name: bulkImportIcon
              importName: BulkImportIcon
          dynamicRoutes:
            - path: /bulk-import/repositories
              importName: BulkImportPage
              menuItem:
                icon: bulkImportIcon
                text: Bulk import
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.
<2> Use this `svg` value to display a black BulkImportPage icon.

> * To configure a dynamic plugin as a floating action button that opens an external link, specify the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point of your `app-config-dynamic.yaml` file in the `backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button` plugin. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To configure a floating action button that opens an external link, specify the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in your dynamic-plugins config map file within the `backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button` plugin. For example:
```

                importName: NullComponent # <1>
                config:
                  icon: '<svg viewBox="0 0 250 300" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid"><path d="M200.134 0l55.555 117.514-55.555 117.518h-47.295l55.555-117.518L152.84 0h47.295zM110.08 99.836l20.056-38.092-2.29-8.868L102.847 0H55.552l48.647 102.898 5.881-3.062zm17.766 74.433l-17.333-39.034-6.314-3.101-48.647 102.898h47.295l25-52.88v-7.883z" fill="#40B4E5"/><path d="M152.842 235.032L97.287 117.514 152.842 0h47.295l-55.555 117.514 55.555 117.518h-47.295zm-97.287 0L0 117.514 55.555 0h47.296L47.295 117.514l55.556 117.518H55.555z" fill="#003764"/></svg>'
                  label: 'Quay'
                  showLabel: true
                  toolTip: 'Quay'
                  to: 'https://quay.io'
              - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
                importName: NullComponent
                config:
                  icon: github
                  label: 'Git'
                  toolTip: 'Github'
                  to: https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-plugins
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.

> * To configure a floating action buttons that contains a submenu, define the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the same `slot` field of your `app-config-dynamic.yaml` file for multiple dynamic plugins as actions. The default slot is `page-end` when not specified. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To configure a floating action button that contains a submenu, define the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the same `slot` field in your dynamic-plugins config-map for multiple actions. The default slot is `page-end` when not specified. For example:
```

Note: FAB actions are not limited to dynamic plugins; they can also include actions that open external links.

          # Start of the floating action button configuration
          mountPoints:
            - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
              importName: BulkImportPage # <1>
              config:
                slot: 'page-end'
                icon: <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" enable-background="new 0 0 24 24" height="24px" viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="24px" fill="#e8eaed"><g><rect fill="none" height="24" width="24"/></g><g><path d="M11,7L9.6,8.4l2.6,2.6H2v2h10.2l-2.6,2.6L11,17l5-5L11,7z M20,19h-8v2h8c1.1,0,2-0.9,2-2V5c0-1.1-0.9-2-2-2h-8v2h8V19z"/></g></svg> # <2>
                label: 'Bulk import'
                toolTip: 'Register multiple repositories in bulk'
                to: /bulk-import/repositories
          # End of the floating action button configuration
          appIcons:
            - name: bulkImportIcon
              importName: BulkImportIcon
          dynamicRoutes:
            - path: /bulk-import/repositories
              importName: BulkImportPage
              menuItem:
                icon: bulkImportIcon
                text: Bulk import
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.

> <2> Use this `svg` value to display a black BulkImportPage icon.

Reviewer: Would it be better to say that the icon allows
`React.ReactElement`, `SVG image icon` and an`HTML image icon`

can you also mention in the button parameters below ?

Reviewer: Okay, should be fine then

                config:
                  icon: '<svg viewBox="0 0 250 300" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid"><path d="M200.134 0l55.555 117.514-55.555 117.518h-47.295l55.555-117.518L152.84 0h47.295zM110.08 99.836l20.056-38.092-2.29-8.868L102.847 0H55.552l48.647 102.898 5.881-3.062zm17.766 74.433l-17.333-39.034-6.314-3.101-48.647 102.898h47.295l25-52.88v-7.883z" fill="#40B4E5"/><path d="M152.842 235.032L97.287 117.514 152.842 0h47.295l-55.555 117.514 55.555 117.518h-47.295zm-97.287 0L0 117.514 55.555 0h47.296L47.295 117.514l55.556 117.518H55.555z" fill="#003764"/></svg>' # <2>
                  label: 'Quay'
                  showLabel: true
                  toolTip: 'Quay'
                  to: 'https://quay.io'
              - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
                importName: NullComponent
                config:
                  icon: github
                  label: 'Git'
                  toolTip: 'Github'
                  to: https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-plugins
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.
<2> Use this `svg` value to display the `Quay` icon.

> * To configure a floating action button that contains a submenu, define the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the same `slot` field in your dynamic plugins config map for multiple dynamic plugins as actions. The default slot is `page-end` when not specified. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To configure a floating action button that contains a submenu, define the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the same `slot` field in your dynamic-plugins config-map for multiple actions. The default slot is `page-end` when not specified. For example:
```

Can you check what is the correct way to write the terms "dynamic plugins" and "config map"
should they have '-' between the words

            - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
              importName: BulkImportPage # <1>
              config:
                slot: 'page-end'
                icon: <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" enable-background="new 0 0 24 24" height="24px" viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="24px" fill="#e8eaed"><g><rect fill="none" height="24" width="24"/></g><g><path d="M11,7L9.6,8.4l2.6,2.6H2v2h10.2l-2.6,2.6L11,17l5-5L11,7z M20,19h-8v2h8c1.1,0,2-0.9,2-2V5c0-1.1-0.9-2-2-2h-8v2h8V19z"/></g></svg> # <2>
                label: 'Bulk import'
                toolTip: 'Register multiple repositories in bulk'
                to: /bulk-import/repositories
          # End of the floating action button configuration
          appIcons:
            - name: bulkImportIcon
              importName: BulkImportIcon
          dynamicRoutes:
            - path: /bulk-import/repositories
              importName: BulkImportPage
              menuItem:
                icon: bulkImportIcon
                text: Bulk import
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.
<2> Use this `svg` value to display a black BulkImportPage icon.

> * To configure a dynamic plugin as a floating action button that opens an external link, specify the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in your dynamic plugins config map within the `backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button` plugin. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To configure an action as a floating action button that opens an external link, specify the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in your `dynamic-plugins.yaml` file within the `backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button` plugin. For example:
```

                importName: NullComponent # <1>
                config:
                  icon: '<svg viewBox="0 0 250 300" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid"><path d="M200.134 0l55.555 117.514-55.555 117.518h-47.295l55.555-117.518L152.84 0h47.295zM110.08 99.836l20.056-38.092-2.29-8.868L102.847 0H55.552l48.647 102.898 5.881-3.062zm17.766 74.433l-17.333-39.034-6.314-3.101-48.647 102.898h47.295l25-52.88v-7.883z" fill="#40B4E5"/><path d="M152.842 235.032L97.287 117.514 152.842 0h47.295l-55.555 117.514 55.555 117.518h-47.295zm-97.287 0L0 117.514 55.555 0h47.296L47.295 117.514l55.556 117.518H55.555z" fill="#003764"/></svg>' # <2>
                  label: 'Quay'
                  showLabel: true
                  toolTip: 'Quay'
                  to: 'https://quay.io'
              - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
                importName: NullComponent
                config:
                  icon: github
                  label: 'Git'
                  toolTip: 'Github'
                  to: https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-plugins
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.

> <2> Use this `svg` value to display the `Quay` icon.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> Use the `svg` value to display the `Quay` icon.
```

              importName: NullComponent # <1>
              config:
                icon: github
                label: 'Git'
                toolTip: 'Github'
                to: https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-plugins
            - mountPoint: global.floatingactionbutton/config
              importName: NullComponent # <1>
              config:
                icon: '<svg viewBox="0 0 250 300" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid"><path d="M200.134 0l55.555 117.514-55.555 117.518h-47.295l55.555-117.518L152.84 0h47.295zM110.08 99.836l20.056-38.092-2.29-8.868L102.847 0H55.552l48.647 102.898 5.881-3.062zm17.766 74.433l-17.333-39.034-6.314-3.101-48.647 102.898h47.295l25-52.88v-7.883z" fill="#40B4E5"/><path d="M152.842 235.032L97.287 117.514 152.842 0h47.295l-55.555 117.514 55.555 117.518h-47.295zm-97.287 0L0 117.514 55.555 0h47.296L47.295 117.514l55.556 117.518H55.555z" fill="#003764"/></svg>'
                label: 'Quay'
                showLabel: true
                toolTip: 'Quay'
                to: 'https://quay.io'
----
<1> (Required) The import name with an associated component to the mount point.

> * To configure a floating action button to display only on specific pages, configure the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the `backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button`` plugin and set the `visibleOnPaths` property as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To configure a floating action button to display only on specific pages, configure the `global.floatingactionbutton/config` mount point in the `backstage-plugin-global-floating-action-button` plugin and set the `visibleOnPaths` property as shown in the following example:
```

| `icon`
| Icon of the floating action button. Recommended to use filled icons from the link:https://fonts.google.com/icons[Material Design library]. You can also use an svg icon. For example: `<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" enable-background="new 0 0 24 24" height="24px" viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="24px" fill="#e8eaed"><g><rect fill="none" height="24" width="24"/></g><g><path d="M11,7L9.6,8.4l2.6,2.6H2v2h10.2l-2.6,2.6L11,17l5-5L11,7z M20,19h-8v2h8c1.1,0,2-0.9,2-2V5c0-1.1-0.9-2-2-2h-8v2h8V19z"/></g></svg>`

> | `StringReact.ReactElement`, `SVG image icon`, `HTML image icon`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `String`, `React.ReactElement`, `SVG image icon`, `HTML image icon`
```

[NOTE]
====

> If multiple floating button actions are assigned to the same `slot` value, these floating buttons are displayed as submenu options within the main floating action button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If multiple floating button actions are assigned to the same `slot` value, the floating buttons are displayed as submenu options within the main floating action button.
```
